---
layout: post
title: All Divinity Publications in Wikidata
description: The VandyCite team at Vanderbilt has finished uploading to Wikidata all of over 3000 publications of the 41 faculty affiliated with the Vanderbilt Divinity School.
date: 2023-03-03 06:00:00
hero_image: /img/segovia_pages.png
image: /img/segovia_venues.png
hero_height: is-large
hero_darken: true
---
Vanderbilt Libraries Wikimedians have achieved another milestone by completing the upload of all publications of the 41 faculty in the Divinity School. This includes over 3100 scholarly works including books, book chapters, journal articles, and encyclopedia entries. 

This Wikidata work grew out of early efforts in 2019 by Elisabeth Shook and Steve Baskauf of the DiSC office. Elisabeth did early property modeling of Divinity Publications and Steve uploaded all of the Vanderbilt faculty in his initial VanderBot project. Uploading Vanderbilt faculty publications began in earnest in 2020 with the Libraries’ VandyCite pandemic project coordinated by Cliff Anderson. Project participants Charlotte Lew, Greg Weldy, Jeff Taylor, and Marymae Jansson each made thousands of edits – creating many publication items and completing items for nearly all publishers and journals focused on religion. 

Divinity Library started the institutional repository project in 2014 to promote open access for faculty publications, and publication data have been collected and updated in Zotero since then. In late 2021, Charlotte and Chris collaborated with Steve to upload the Divinity publications to Wikidata. The first step involved creating a Python script to use data from the CrossRef API to retrieve publication data using DOIs. Over 400 publications were added to Wikidata by that method. That script was then adapted to use a spreadsheet export from the Zotero database as the data source. Over 2600 items were created using information directly from the database. (For complete statistics on the project, visit https://github.com/HeardLibrary/linked-data/blob/master/publications/divinity-law/vandycite_statistics.md.)  

Now that there is a nearly complete record of Divinity publications in Wikidata, tools like Scholia can be used to visualize the academic contributions of the Divinity Faculty. For example, the publications of Fernando Segovia can be visualized at https://scholia.toolforge.org/author/Q16122562. Because the Wikidata record includes publication types common in the humanities like books, book chapters, and encyclopedia entries that are often missed by bibliometric systems that are focused solely on journal articles, Scholia can give a more complete picture of a faculty member’s academic contributions. The publication data are also freely available to be queried. For example, a graduate student could find possible publication venues by finding the journals in which faculty publish the most articles (https://w.wiki/6W4b).  

