---
layout: post
title: Open Science recipes published
description: My colleague Shenmeng Xu and I have published two technical "recipes" in The Open Science Cookbook published by the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL).
date: 2025-06-25 18:00:00
hero_image: /img/osc_cover.jpg
image: /img/osc_small.jpg
hero_height: is-large
hero_darken: true
---

My colleage from the Vanderbilt Libraries' Digital Lab, Shenmeng Xu, an I have published two chapters in the ACRL's [2025 Open Science Cookbook](https://www.ala.org/sites/default/files/2025-06/9798892553667.pdf). The Cookbook is a lighthearted take on technical topics where instructions are given in "recipe" format to teach beginners new tech skills. 

Chapter 15, in the "Outreach" section is "Increasing Visibility and Discoverability of Electronic Theses and Dissertations Using Linked Open Data: A Simple Process for Uploading Metadata to Wikidata and is based on what we learned from a project we carried out a few years ago to upload all theses and dissertations from the Vanderbilt Institutional Repository to Wikidata, the free knowledge graph open for anyone to contribute. It features the [VanderBot](https://github.com/HeardLibrary/linked-data/blob/master/vanderbot/README.md) script that has been used to make over 53,000 contributions to Wikidata. You can view the chapter [here](https://baskauf.github.io/pubs/increasing_visibility_and_discoverability_of_etd.pdf).

Chapter 22, in the "Collaborations and Partnerships" section is entitled "Bibliometric Fusion: An Open Science Collaborative Project on Research Collaboration Network Mapping". It is based on a project that Shenmeng and I did with researchers in the Vanderbilt Department of Otolaryngology to try to understand patterns of publication collaboration among otolaryngologists. The results were presented at the Triological Society Combined Sections Meeting in 2024 (1) and the project is being described in a manuscript that is in preparation. You can view the chapter [here](https://baskauf.github.io/pubs/bibliometric_fusion.pdf).

(1) Vivek, L., E. Clark, S.J. Baskauf, S. Xu, L. Gao, K. Nguyen, M. Goldin, K. Prasad, A. Miller, M.C. Topf, and A. Gelbard. 2024. Network Analysis of American Otolaryngologists. Triological Society Combined Sections Meeting, West Palm Beach, FL. January 26, 2024.